CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 20-year-old right-handed college student with refractory absence epilepsy.
MEDICATIONS: Depakote and Keppra.
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG is performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Multiple push button events are identified, but not for the patient’s seizures.  In addition, the patient has multiple absence spells.  She receives Keppra (Levetiracetam) during this record.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: In wakefulness, the background EEG includes a 9 Hz posterior dominant rhythm, which is symmetric and reactive to eye opening.  There are occasional bursts of isolated, frontally predominant symmetric high amplitude 5 Hz spike and slow wave activity.  The overall waking record is at the limits of normal in terms of organization for an individual of this age.  Features of stage II sleep include vertex waves, K complexes, and spindles.  In the transition to sleep, there are some briefer spike and slow wave complexes, as well as some longer bursts.  In addition, while there is no definite dyshormia, in some sections in the sleep record there is subtle sharply contoured activity in the frontal regions, but no clear asymmetry.
SEIZURES: There are multiple push buttons by the family: 17:13, 18:14, 19:19, and 20:39.  These do not appear to be seizures.  Given the language (Arabic), it is not clear what the behavior was even when reviewing the video, but these are no seizures and in some cases, when the nurse enters, the patient verbalizes in English that she is fine and that she did not experience any symptoms.
Multiple bursts of generalized spike and slow wave activity are identified.  The majority of these are 8 seconds in duration.  In some cases but not in every case it is possible to identify a clinical correlate, which includes eye blinking.  The resolution of the camera does not permit identification of the facial twitching seen in the lab.  In addition, sometimes the patient scratches her scalp during the seizures.  The minute the discharge stops, the patient is back to her usual self.  She is sitting parallel rather than facing her mother and the mother never identifies these discharges.  In the initial portions of the record, they occur approximately one per hour including 4:13:46, 6:59, 18:35, 16:09, 20:07, 37:00, and 21:40.  In addition they are seen at 7:00 AM and at 10:21 AM.  There are some computer problems and a loss of data at 3:00 AM, but it appears in wakefulness in the initial portions of the record that the activity is approximately once per hour and the limited data seen on the morning of the 1st suggests that the activity has slowed to a frequency of less than one per hour.
At 00:55:45, the patient is sleeping.  The resolution of the video is poor, but she has a burst of frontally predominant generalized activity lasting approximately three seconds followed by an arousal without clear clinical correlate.  This is one of the infrequent times that this activity can be seen.
HR:  96 BPM.
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
Bursts of frontally predominant 3 to 6 Hz spike and slow wave activity, some of which are clinically significant.

CLINICAL CORRELATION: The background EEG is at the limits of normal.  There were no definitive frontal abnormalities, but given the refractory nature of this patient’s epilepsy, if the seizures do not improve with her current treatment plan, an additional EEG recording with special electrodes would be helpful to exclude a frontal lobe process producing this epilepsy syndrome.




